raise your hand if you walk or bike or
skateboard or scooter to school doing it
safely this award is for the safe routes
to school program in Takoma Park each
school will be getting an award and it's
for all of our activities that we've
done to teach kids about safe practices
while biking and walking to school this
is happening across the nation there are
290 schools in Maryland now
participating there are over 3,000
schools in all 50 states that are part
of this program we think it's a way to
drive home safety habits early to our
children but also to have a better
environment in a better future I want
you to start off by giving yourselves a
round of applause you did the biggest
piece for us was making sure they
understood why they were doing it today
yes we were out here to have a good time
but we also do it to make sure that we
are being safe we have a lot of kids who
bike and who walk and ride scooters and
we want to make sure they're wearing
helmets for looking both ways before
they cross the street that they're
paying attention to the crossing guards
who are helping them out so it was a
good opportunity today to reinforce all
of the good safety rules we have here in
Takoma Park it was really a lot of fun
to walk to school with you today but
it's not just about today right it's
about every day that you
to school and even when you're not just
walking to school but when you're
walking to the store or you're walking
to a friend's house or you're playing
out in the yard you want to remember all
those safety tips everybody has stole my
thunder because they've been combined
right looking left again and crossing in
crosswalks and wearing bike elements and
doing all the things that are gonna keep
you safe and that's what the police
department's here for is to keep you
safe so when you see a police officer
wave - on the way back the benefits
obviously there's exercise the kids get
some exercise especially these days
where there's all this kids not getting
out of the house and playing video games
so walking to school is good exercise
the other thing is it reduces the carbon
footprint you know people aren't having
to drive it reduces traffic congestion
for the parents having to pull into the
school and drop the kids off the other
thing is that it reminds people that
they should look both ways that they
should wear a visible clothing as winter
approaches and the kids are going to
school and it's much darker in the
morning they should be wearing something
that can be a little bit easily seen by
cars and to cross with the crosswalks
and to walk with a buddy